# What is NextJS

NextJS is the React framework for production https://nextjs.org/
NextJS ==> is a full-stack framework for ReactJS

NextJS builds upon React, and makes it building large scale React applications easier

# NextJS key features
1. **Built-in server-side rendering** (server-side rendering ==> is all about preparing the content ofa a page on the server instead of the client)
If that page would be pre-rendered on the server, if that data fetching somehow could be done on the server, when the request hits that server and then the finished page would be served to our users and to the search engine crawlers, then users would not have that flickering loading state and search engines would see our page content. And that's the problem server-side rendering solves. It allows us to pre-render React pages, React components on a server. Now ReactJS actually has built-in features that allow you to add server-side rendering but it can be tricky to get that right. And it requires extra setup from your side. With NextJS, that becomes way easier because NextJS has built-in server-side rendering. It automatically pre renders your pages and that means that with NextJS, if you build a standard NextJS app, without any extra setup from your side, if you visit such a page, it was pre-rendered on the server by default out of the box.
with NextJS, after this initial load offered as initial request, we still get a standard React app running in the browser, a standard single page application even, subsequent navigation actions by the user. So when the user then browses our page and navigates around, those actions are all handled by React in the browser to have this fast interactive user experience which we typically wanna offer with React, which was one of the reasons why you would use React typically.
2. **File-based Routing** In traditional React, you don't even have a router (routing means that we give the user the illusion of having multiple pages). When we navigate around and we load different pages, then that's the job of a router. Typically we use React Router for that. This router basically watches the URL, and when it changes, it basically prevents the browser default of sending a request to some backend server, and instead renders different content on the page with React. A different component in the end. That's what routing is.
React Router is a great package, but it is extra code which you have to write. And then often you end up storing your components that act as pages in a separate folder, which kind of replicates your route set up in code.
with NextJS, you would define pages and routes with files and folders. You have a special pages folder in NextJS apps which has to be named pages, and then you are structuring that folder, defines the routes and paths  our page supports.
3. **Build Fullstack Apps** NextJS also makes it easy for us as a developer to add backend code to our react project. So to build a full stack react project, where we don't just have the client side code maybe with server-side pre-rendering, but where we also have standalone backend code, that for example, works with the file system or reaches out to a database. With NextJS it's very easy to add our own backend API into our react project using NodeJS code. So we can easily add such code to our Next react apps when using NextJS. That's easy to add with NextJS, we can stay in one project, we have to know some NodeJS code forded arguably, but we would have to know that anyways when we build our own backend, and then we don't have to build a standalone REST API project, but instead we can work on one project, our Next project, and add all the client's side code, our react user interface, and also blend in our backend API code. That's why NextJS is amazing.